In recent years, Nepal has made momentous advances in digital space. Less than 10 percent of the population had accessed the internet in 2011; now, over 90 percent of the Nepali population has access to some form of internet as of July 2022.As the country enters the world of digits, every aspect of life in the digital sector becomes data, including all the valuable information stored and shared by the government authorities. With such a plethora of information in the digital space, data security and privacy are very important for individuals, organizations, and governments alike.Building a security frameworkAs humanity moves forward towards a digitally connected future, defending and empowering the digital space is of paramount. Rapid digitization presents both opportunities and challenges. With the significant surge in digital adoption, the time to build a robust security framework is already running low. In Nepal's context, the increasing reliance on digital platforms for communication, commerce, business, and governance requires a proactive approach to cybersecurity.A security framework can be a comprehensive set of plans and policies devised by organizations or governments, along with technologies, processes, and systems designed to safeguard digital assets and systems from various threats.From April 2022 to April 2023, Microsoft Threat Intelligence examined and looked into 35 million instances of business email compromise, happening at an average rate of 156,000 attempts every day. In the year 2022, there were about 4,100 publicly disclosed data breaches worldwide, resulting in the exposure of approximately 22 billion records.The benefits of a strong security framework extend beyond mere protection against cyber threats. A nation equipped with a robust digital defense system can support a suitable environment for economic growth, attract foreign investments, and ensure the trust of its citizens in online transactions and services. Additionally, it facilitates the safeguarding of sensitive information, thereby preserving national security.Elements of a security framework encompass different measures, including encryption protocols, building firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and incident response mechanisms. Regular audits, employee training, and international collaboration on threat intelligence also play pivotal roles in supporting overall cybersecurity resilience.Importance of Leadership BindingNepali people and authorities often reverberate that Nepal is en route to become a Smart nation. Different government plans and policies along with private sector imitations and public's enthusiasm show that the country is heading towards smart citizens, smart government, smart economy, and smart society. The path to it is to use technology in every part of life. The key to this is smart data handling. This can be done through leadership that can set strategic direction, policies, and practices to protect an organization's digital assets from cyber threats.Leadership in the world of cybersecurity can be individuals or teams responsible for setting the strategic direction, policies, and practices to protect an organization's digital assets from cyber threats through Zero Trust.Zero Trust is a security framework that Microsoft uses to protect its customers and company. It's based on the principle of 'never trust, always verify'. Zero Trust assumes that there's a breach and verifies each request as if it came from an open network.A leader must ensure that the necessary resources are allocated and a training program for employees to identify and report potential security threats is provided efficiently. They should work on strategic planning to develop and implement a cybersecurity strategy aligned with the organizational structures. Develop a policy to ensure secure handling of information, education, and training of employees, and respond to any situation to minimize damage and ensure a swift recovery.A viable investment in a multi-year journeyDeveloping countries can achieve immense growth by making the right investments in the digital world for a multi-year journey. It opens avenues not only for building a robust digital ecosystem but also for becoming competitive in a global scenario. Being prepared and understanding the potential consequences of cyberspace being compromised is essential. The cost of recovering from such losses can be more devastating. Allocating significant time, effort, and investment to build a resilient digital system will foster its goals of sustainable development, economic prosperity, and global competitiveness.The role of AIThe transformative advent of artificial intelligence (AI) in the digital space indicates a new era of innovation and security. Often quoted as 'game-changing technology' AI's impact on digital security stands out against ever-evolving cyber threats.AI's ability to meticulously analyze massive amounts of data in real-time can transform our current approach to cyber security. It can unveil patterns that might otherwise evade detection, allowing early recognition of potential threats.Collaboration between AI technologies and human expertise is equally important. Thus, prioritizing research and development in AI for the digital world is instrumental, as the dominance of AI in the cyber world is evident. As Nepal and other nations navigate the complexities of the digital frontier, strategic investments become integral to safe digital space, development and prosperity.